Add vignette on benchmarking model options (#695)
epiforecasts/EpiNow2: vignettes/speedup_options.Rmd

options(mc.cores = 4)

# Generation time
generation_time <- Gamma(
  shape = Normal(1.3, 0.3),
  rate = Normal(0.37, 0.09),
  max = 14
)

# Incubation period
incubation_period <- LogNormal(
  meanlog = Normal(1.6, 0.05),
  sdlog = Normal(0.5, 0.05),
  max = 14
)

# Reporting delay
reporting_delay <- LogNormal(
  meanlog = 0.5,
  sdlog = 0.5,
  max = 10
)

# Combine the incubation period and reporting delay into one delay
delay <- incubation_period + reporting_delay

# Observation model options
obs <- obs_opts(
  scale = list(mean = 0.1, sd = 0.025),
  return_likelihood = TRUE
)

# No forecasting; just estimation
horizon <- 0
```

Now, let's generate the `estimates` object from `epinow()`.
```{r estimates}
estimates <- epinow(
  data = example_confirmed[1:100],
  generation_time = generation_time_opts(example_generation_time),
  delays = delay_opts(example_incubation_period + example_reporting_delay),
  rt = rt_opts(prior = list(mean = 2, sd = 0.1), rw = 14),
  gp = NULL,
  obs = obs,
  horizon = horizon,
  output = "fit"
)
```

For the `R` data, we will set up an arbitrary trajectory and add some Gaussian noise.
```{r R-data}
# Arbitrary reproduction number trajectory

> R <- c(

Reviewer: as this test R is non-stationary and drawn from model different data generating processes (i.e stepwise changes, linear changes etc) I think it somewhat biases you towards less mechanistic model options (more because there is less room for mechanistic choices to do well as none of the latent process models are well defined to fit to this data). Probably should just note this complexity.

Author: Thanks. I've added a caveat here bc56702e03fe2bf850ed30966e731bde94bb416e.

# Extract the simulated reported cases and rename the "value" column to "confirm" (to match EpiNow2 requirements)
reported_cases_true <- posterior_sample[
  variable == "reported_cases", .(date, confirm = value)
]
```

Now, to the main part of this vignette: we will define and run the different model options and evaluate their runtimes and estimation performance.

## Model options

```{r model-descriptions}
model_descriptions <- data.table(
  model = c(
    "non_mechanistic",
    "gp",
    "gp_stationary",
    "rw1_no_gp",
    "rw1_gp",
    "rw7_no_gp",
    "rw7_gp",
    "vb_rstan",
    "vb_cmdstanr",
    "pathfinder",
    "laplace"
  ),
  description = c(
    "The model with no priors on Rt",
    "Gaussian process turned on and with a non-stationary prior on $R_t$ (default)",
    "Gaussian process turned on and with a stationary Gaussian process prior on $R_t$",
    "1-day random walk, Gaussian process turned off, and a non-stationary prior on $R_t$ (default)",
    "1-day random walk, Gaussian process turned on, and a non-stationary prior on $R_t$ (default)",
    "7-day random walk, Gaussian process turned off, and a non-stationary prior on $R_t$ (default)",

>     "7-day random walk, Gaussian process turned on, and a non-stationary prior on $R_t$ (default)",

Reviewer: I think it might be useful to describe the models using categories vs free text (so process model changes, Rt model changes, fitting method changes, fitting package changes) if possible?

Author: Not sure I understand. Can you give an example by rewording one of the examples above?

Author: Please see the latest version in 495881519f2368faed9080eda7532640e4d20d14 and let me know what you think.

```{r fit_crps}
# Function to extract Rt estimates
Rt_estimated <- lapply(results, function(x) {
  if (is.null(x$error)) {
    obj <- x$result$estimates$fit
    if (inherits(obj, "stanfit")) {
      if ("R[1]" %in% names(obj)) {
        extract(obj, "R")$R
      } else {
        extract(obj, "gen_R")$gen_R
      }
    } else {
      obj |>
        as_draws_matrix() |>
        subset_draws(variable = "R")
    }
  } else {
    NA
  }
})
# CRPS for the Rt estimates
rt_crps <- lapply(
  Rt_estimated,
  calc_crps,
  truth = R
)

# Function to extract infection estimates
infections_estimated <- lapply(results, function(x) {
  if (is.null(x$error)) {
    obj <- x$result$estimates$fit
    if (inherits(obj, "stanfit")) {
      extract(obj, "infections")$infections
    } else {
      obj |>
        as_draws_matrix() |>
        subset_draws(variable = "infections")
    }
  } else {
    NA
  }
})

# CRPS for the infections estimates
infections_crps <- lapply(
  infections_estimated,
  calc_crps,
  truth = infections_true
)
```

We will now post-process the CRPS results to make them easier to visualise by adding a  "time" column and reshaping the data to long format.

> ```{r fit_postprocessing}

Reviewer: I'd like to see scores summarised by period (with evidence, partial evidence, and forecast) in order more easily evidence the recommendations below.

Author: These have now been included. Please see the latest version in 495881519f2368faed9080eda7532640e4d20d14 and let me know what you think.

# Post-processing the CRPS results of the Rt estimates
rt_df <- as.data.table(rt_crps)
rt_df[, time := 1:.N]
rt_df <- melt(
  rt_df,
  id.vars = c("time"),
  variable.name = "model"
)

# Post-processing the CRPS results of the infection estimates
infections_df <- as.data.table(infections_crps)
infections_df[, time := 1:.N]
infections_df <- melt(
  infections_df,
  id.vars = c("time"),
  variable.name = "model"
)
```

Let's visualise the CRPS results for the $R_t$ and infection estimates.

```{r rt_plot}

> rt_plot <- ggplot(rt_df, aes(x = time, y = value, colour = model)) +

Reviewer: Maybe all of these should be relative to the default mode (as this is what people are using unless they do something else) and stratified by type (process model change or sampler change)

  geom_line() +
  scale_colour_brewer("Model", palette = "Dark2") +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = label_number_auto()) +
  labs(x = "Time", y = "CRPS", title = "Estimating Rt with various model options") +
  ggplot2::theme_bw()
plot(rt_plot)
```

```{r infections_plot}
infections_plot <- ggplot(infections_df, aes(x = time, y = value, colour = model)) +
  geom_line() +
  scale_colour_brewer("Model", palette = "Dark2") +
  scale_y_continuous(labels = label_comma()) +
  labs(x = "Time", y = "CRPS", title = "Estimating infections with various model options") +
  ggplot2::theme_bw()
plot(infections_plot)
```

## Some considerations when using the model options

### Mechanistic vs non-mechanistic models

> - Estimation in _EpiNow2_ using the mechanistic approaches (prior on $R_t$) is often much slower than the non-mechanistic approach. The mechanistic model is slower because it models intricate details about the processes and mechanisms that drive $R_t$ estimates using the renewal equation. The non-mechanistic model, on the other hand, runs much faster but does not use the renewal equation to generate infections. Because of this none of the options defining the behaviour of the reproduction number are available in this case, limiting flexibility. It also means that the model is questionable for forecasting. If performing a retrospective analysis, the _non-mechanistic model_ (where `rt = NULL`) is better suited and a faster alternative to the mechanistic $R_t$ model.

Reviewer: I think there are some quite strong statements in here. It might be helpful to discuss the evidence on which they rest. I am particularly uncomfortable with the non-mechanistic recommendation for retrospective use (where I would probably personally suggest the gp on Rt vs the residual approach right now without evidence).

Author: What sort of evidence would be useful here aside the CRPS?

Author: The vignette has now been extensively rewritten. Please see the latest version in 495881519f2368faed9080eda7532640e4d20d14 and let me know what you think

> - Estimation in _EpiNow2_ using the mechanistic approaches (prior on $R_t$) is often much slower than the non-mechanistic approach. The mechanistic model is slower because it models intricate details about the processes and mechanisms that drive $R_t$ estimates using the renewal equation. The non-mechanistic model, on the other hand, runs much faster but does not use the renewal equation to generate infections. Because of this none of the options defining the behaviour of the reproduction number are available in this case, limiting flexibility. It also means that the model is questionable for forecasting. If performing a retrospective analysis, the _non-mechanistic model_ (where `rt = NULL`) is better suited and a faster alternative to the mechanistic $R_t$ model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Estimation in _EpiNow2_ using the mechanistic approaches (prior on $R_t$) is often much slower than the non-mechanistic approach. The mechanistic model is slower because it models details about the processes and mechanisms that drive $R_t$ estimates using the renewal equation. The non-mechanistic model, on the other hand, runs much faster but does not use the renewal equation to generate infections. Because of this none of the options defining the behaviour of the reproduction number are available in this case, limiting flexibility. It also means that the model is questionable for forecasting. If performing a retrospective analysis, the _non-mechanistic model_ (where `rt = NULL`) is better suited and a faster alternative to the mechanistic $R_t$ model.
```

Author: Thanks

---
title: "Speeding up model runs"
output:
  rmarkdown::html_vignette   
csl: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/citation-style-language/styles/master/apa-numeric-superscript-brackets.csl
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Speeding up model runs}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
editor_options: 
  chunk_output_type: console
---

``` r
library(EpiNow2)
library(scoringutils)
library(data.table)
library(rstan)
library(cmdstanr)
library(ggplot2)
```

> This vignette outlines available options for speeding up model runtimes in _EpiNow2_. We will compare the models by run time, quantitative, and qualitative performance of fit against the "true" trajectory of the data.

Author: ```suggestion
This vignette explores available forecasting model options in _EpiNow2_ and how they vary by speed and forecast performance. We will compare the models by run time and forecast performance (quantitatively and qualitatively) against the "true" trajectory of the data.
```

## The benchmarking data

> We will simulate the "true" infections and Rt data using for benchmarking using `forecast_infections()`. 

Author: ```suggestion
To compare the model options, we will need a dataset for which we know the "true" values and trajectories. So, we will start by generating the "true" infections and Rt data using _EpiNow2_'s `forecast_infections()` function. 
```

> We will simulate the "true" infections and Rt data using for benchmarking using `forecast_infections()`. 

Author: ```suggestion
We will simulate the "true" infections and $R_t$ data using for benchmarking using `forecast_infections()`. 
```

`forecast_infections()` requires a fitted estimates object from `estimate_infections()` or `epinow()`, the trajectory of the reproduction number, `R`, and the number of samples to simulate. So, we will set these up first.

> To obtain the `estimates` object, we have to fit the `estimate_infections()` model to observed data to recover realistic parameter values for the simulation. To do this, we will use the first 100 observations of the `example_confirmed` dataset vendored with this package. This dataset provides a time series of cases by reporting date. We will also use the `example_generation_time`, `example_incubation_period`, and `example_reporting_delay` values that come with the package. 

Author: ```suggestion
To obtain the `estimates` object, we will run the `estimate_infections()` model on real-world observed data to recover realistic parameter values. We will use the first 100 observations of the `example_confirmed` data set, the `example_generation_time`, `example_incubation_period`, and `example_reporting_delay` values that come with _EpiNow2_.
```

> Several of the parameters we will use through out this vignette will have the same value, so we will set these up first.

Author: ```suggestion
Several of the parameters we will use through out this vignette will have the same value, so we will set these up in one place.
```

  rt = rt_opts(prior = list(mean = 2, sd = 0.1), rw = 14),
  gp = NULL,
  obs = obs,
  horizon = horizon
)
```

```
#> DEBUG [2024-06-13 20:11:11] estimate_infections: Running in exact mode for 2000 samples (across 4 chains each with a warm up of 250 iterations each) and 114 time steps of which 0 are a forecast
```

For the `R` data, we will set up an arbitrary trajectory and add some Gaussian noise.

``` r
# Arbitrary reproduction number trajectory
R <- c(
  rep(2, 40), rep(0.5, 10), rep(1, 10), 1 + 0.04 * 1:20, rep(1.4, 5),
  1.4 - 0.02 * 1:20, rep(1.4, 10), rep(0.8, 5), 0.8 + 0.02 * 1:20
)
# Add Gaussian noise
R_noisy <- R * rnorm(length(R), 1, 0.05)
```

Now, we will simulate the true infections and $Rt$ data by sampling from $10$ posterior samples.

``` r
# Forecast infections and the trajectory of Rt
forecast <- forecast_infections(estimates, R = R_noisy, samples = 10)
```

```
#> DEBUG [2024-06-13 20:11:46] simulate_infections: Running in exact mode for 1 samples (across 1 chains each with a warm up of 1 iterations each) and 154 time steps of which 40 are a forecast
```

We will now extract the benchamrking data:

> - `R_true`: the median of the simulated Rts, and

Author: ```suggestion
- `R_true`: the median of the simulated $Rt$, and
```

- `infections_true`: the infections by date of infection

``` r
R_true <- forecast$summarised[variable == "R"]$median

# Get the posterior samples from which to extract the simulated infections and reported cases
posterior_sample <- forecast$samples[sample == 1]

# Extract the simulated infections
infections_true <- posterior_sample[variable == "infections"]$value

> # Extract the simulated reported cases

Author: ```suggestion
# Extract the simulated reported cases and rename the "value" column to "confirm" (to match EpiNow2 requirements)
```

reported_cases_true <- posterior_sample[
  variable == "reported_cases", .(date, confirm = value)
]
```

> Now, to the main part of this vignette: we will compare the run times of different models in _EpiNow2_.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, to the main part of this vignette: we will compare the run times of different models options.
```

## Model options

We will use the following models:
- _gp_: A Gaussian process prior on the reproduction number $R_t$ and no random walk, using _MCMC sampling_.
- _vb_: A Gaussian process prior on the reproduction number $R_t$ and no random walk, using the _variational inference_ algorithm.

> - _non_mechanistic_: A model with that uses _back calculation_.

Author: ```suggestion
- _non_mechanistic_: A model with that uses _back calculation and sets no prior on $R_t$.
```

- _rw1_no_gp_: A model with a 1-day random walk and Gaussian process turned off.
- _rw7_no_gp_: A model with a 7-day random walk and Gaussian process turned off.
- _rw7_gp_: A model with a 7-day random walk and Gaussian process turned on.

> - _pf_: A model that uses the "pathfinder" algorithm (from the `{cmdstanr}` package) for sampling.

Author: ```suggestion
- _pf_: A model that uses the "pathfinder" algorithm (from the [`{cmdstanr}`](https://github.com/stan-dev/cmdstanr) package) for sampling.
```

> - _lp_: A model that uses the "Laplace" algorithm (from the `{cmdstanr}` package) for sampling.

Author: ```suggestion
- _lp_: A model that uses the "Laplace" algorithm (from the [`{cmdstanr}`](https://github.com/stan-dev/cmdstanr) package) for sampling.
```

``` r
# Extract the run times
models <- names(models)
runtimes <- vapply(
  results,
  function(x) x$timing,
  double(1)
)
# Extracting the difftime objects drops the units, so we need to extract them separately
runtimes_units <- vapply(
  results,
  function(x) attr(x$timing, "units"),
  character(1)
)
# We then recompose the runtimes with the units
runtimes_vec <- paste(round(runtimes), runtimes_units)
# Add the model names
names(runtimes_vec) <- models
# Print in table
knitr::kable(runtimes_vec, col.names = c("models", "Run time"), caption = "Run times")
```

Table: Run times (seconds)

|models          |  Run time|
|:---------------|---------:|
|gp              |  5.011109|
|non_mechanistic | 13.676094|
|rw1_no_gp       |  5.972183|
|rw7_no_gp       |  2.413113|
|rw7_gp          |  6.252660|
|vb              |  2.673222|

### Forecast evaluation

Now, we will compare the estimated and true values using the continuous ranked probability score (CRPS). The CRPS is a proper scoring rule that measures the accuracy of probabilistic forecasts. We will use the `crps()` function from the `{scoringutils}` package.

> To calculate the CRPS for the estimated Rt and infections, we will first set up a function that makes sure the data and estimates are of the same length and calls the `crps_sample()` function from the `{scoringutils}` package.

Author: ```suggestion
To calculate the CRPS for the estimated $R_t$ and infections, we will first set up a function that makes sure the data and estimates are of the same length and calls the `crps_sample()` function from the `{scoringutils}` package.
```

``` r
# A function to calculate the CRPS
calc_crps <- function(x, truth) {
  shortest_obs_length <- min(ncol(x), length(truth))
  reduced_truth <- tail(truth, shortest_obs_length)
  reduced_x <- tail(t(x), shortest_obs_length)
  return(crps_sample(reduced_truth, reduced_x))
}
```

> Now, we can calculate CRPS for the Rt and infection estimates of the various models and using `calc_crps()`.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, we can calculate CRPS for the $R_t$ and infection estimates of the various models using `calc_crps()`.
```

rt_df <- as.data.table(rt_crps)
rt_df[, metric := "CRPS"]
rt_df[, time := 1:.N]
rt_df <- melt(
  rt_df,
  id.vars = c("metric", "time"),
  variable.name = "model"
)

# Post-processing the CRPS results of the infection estimates
infections_df <- as.data.table(infections_crps)
infections_df[, metric := "CRPS"]
infections_df[, time := 1:.N]
infections_df <- melt(
  infections_df,
  id.vars = c("metric", "time"),
  variable.name = "model"
)
```

Let's visualise the CRPS results for the Rt and infection estimates.

``` r
rt_plot <- ggplot(rt_df, aes(x = time, y = value, colour = model)) +
  geom_line() +
  scale_colour_brewer("Model", palette = "Dark2") +
  xlab("Time") +
  ylab("CRPS") +
  ggplot2::theme_bw() +
  ggtitle("Reconstructing R")
plot(rt_plot)
```

![plot of chunk rt_plot](figure/rt_plot-1.png)

``` r
infections_plot <- ggplot(infections_df, aes(x = time, y = value, colour = model)) +
  geom_line() +
  scale_colour_brewer("Model", palette = "Dark2") +
  xlab("Time") +
  ylab("CRPS") +
  ggplot2::theme_bw() +
  ggtitle("Reconstructing infections")
plot(infections_plot)
```

![plot of chunk infections_plot](figure/infections_plot-1.png)

> ## Some considerations

Author: ```suggestion
## Some considerations when using the model options
```

  rate = Normal(0.37, 0.09),
  max = 14
)

# Incubation period
incubation_period <- LogNormal(
  meanlog = Normal(1.6, 0.05),
  sdlog = Normal(0.5, 0.05),
  max = 14
)

# Reporting delay
reporting_delay <- LogNormal(
  meanlog = 0.5,
  sdlog = 0.5,
  max = 10
)

# Combine the incubation period and reporting delay into one delay
delay <- incubation_period + reporting_delay

# Observation model options
obs <- obs_opts(
  scale = list(mean = 0.1, sd = 0.025),
  return_likelihood = TRUE
)

# 7-day forecast window
horizon <- 7

# Rt default prior
rt_prior_default <- list(mean = 2, sd = 0.1)
```

Now, let's generate the `estimates` object from `epinow()`.

``` r
estimates <- epinow(
  data = example_confirmed[1:100],
  generation_time = generation_time_opts(example_generation_time),
  delays = delay_opts(example_incubation_period + example_reporting_delay),
  rt = rt_opts(prior = rt_prior_default, rw = 14),
  gp = NULL,
  obs = obs,
  horizon = 0, # no forecasting
  output = "fit"
)
#> DEBUG [2024-08-07 14:41:13] epinow: Running in exact mode for 2000 samples (across 4 chains each with a warm up of 250 iterations each) and 114 time steps of which 0 are a forecast
```

> For the `R` data, we will set up an arbitrary trajectory and add some Gaussian noise.

Reviewer: Suggest expanding on why this Rt trajectory is the way it is. I.e constant periods, periods of linear change and what that might look like in the real world

Author: This has been changed to a new trajectory.

``` r
# Arbitrary reproduction number trajectory
R <- c(
  rep(2, 40), rep(0.5, 10), rep(1, 10), 1 + 0.04 * 1:20, rep(1.4, 5),
  1.4 - 0.02 * 1:20, rep(1.4, 10), rep(0.8, 5), 0.8 + 0.02 * 1:20
)
# Add Gaussian noise
R_noisy <- R * rnorm(length(R), 1, 0.05)
```

Now, we are ready to simulate the true infections and $R_t$ data by sampling from $10$ posterior samples.

``` r
# Forecast infections and the trajectory of Rt
forecast <- forecast_infections(
  estimates$estimates,
  R = R_noisy,
  samples = 10
)
#> DEBUG [2024-08-07 14:41:54] simulate_infections: Running in exact mode for 1 samples (across 1 chains each with a warm up of 1 iterations each) and 154 time steps of which 40 are a forecast
```

We will now extract the required data:
- `R_true`: the median of the simulated $R_t$ values,
- `infections_true`: the infections by date of infection, and
- `reported_cases_true`: the reported cases by date of report.

``` r

> R_true <- forecast$summarised[variable == "R"]$median

Reviewer: why is R_true not just R?

Author: As in the naming?

# Get the posterior samples from which to extract the simulated infections and reported cases
posterior_sample <- forecast$samples[sample == 1]

# Extract the simulated infections
infections_true <- posterior_sample[variable == "infections"]$value

# Extract the simulated reported cases and rename the "value" column to "confirm" (to match EpiNow2 requirements)
reported_cases_true <- posterior_sample[
  variable == "reported_cases", .(date, confirm = value)
]
```

Now, to the main part of this vignette: we will define and run the different model options and evaluate their runtimes and estimation and forecasting performance.

## Model options

Below we describe each model.

Table: Model options

|model               |description                                                                                                            |
|:-------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> |default_mcmc_rstan  |Default model; Gaussian process on new infection and with a non-stationary prior on $R_t$                              |

Reviewer: The default only has a GP on the residuals of Rt (i.e this is what makes its Rt estimates non-stationary). Suggest a reword here as it sounds like its on new infections.

|default_vb_rstan    |Default model; Variational algorithm for sampling instead of MCMC and using [`{rstan}`]                                |
|default_vb_cmdstanr |Default model; Variational algorithm for sampling instead of MCMC and using [`{cmdstanr}`]                             |

Table: Model components

|model               |gaussian_process |rt_model_rw |rt_model_gp    |sampling              |package  |
|:-------------------|:----------------|:-----------|:--------------|:---------------------|:--------|
|default_mcmc_rstan  |on               |None        |non_stationary |MCMC                  |rstan    |
|non_mechanistic     |on               |None        |None           |MCMC                  |rstan    |
|no_rw_gp            |on               |None        |stationary     |MCMC                  |rstan    |
|rw1_no_gp           |off              |1-day       |non_stationary |MCMC                  |rstan    |
|rw1_gp              |on               |1-day       |non_stationary |MCMC                  |rstan    |
|rw7_no_gp           |off              |7-days      |non_stationary |MCMC                  |rstan    |

> |rw7_gp              |on               |7-days      |non_stationary |MCMC                  |rstan    |

Reviewer: is this suggesting having both a random walk on Rt and a GP? I think that might be very hard to fit?

```{.r .fold-hide}
# Extract the run times
runtimes <- lapply(
  results,
  function(x) {
    if (is.null(x$error)) {
      return(round(as.duration(x$result$timing), 1))
    } else {
      return(as.duration("NA"))
    }
  }
)

# Convert to a table format

runtimes_dt <- melt(
  as.data.table(runtimes),
  measure.vars = names(model_configs),
  variable.name = "model",
  value.name = "runtime"
)

# Add model descriptions

runtimes_dt <- merge(
  runtimes_dt,
  model_descriptions,
  by = "model"
)

setcolorder(runtimes_dt, c("model", "description", "runtime"))

# Order by run time

runtimes_dt <- runtimes_dt[order(runtime), ]
 
# Print table
knitr::kable(runtimes_dt[, c("model", "description", "runtime")], caption = "Run times for various _EpiNow2_ models")
```

Table: Run times for various _EpiNow2_ models

|model               |description                                                                                                            |                  runtime|
|:-------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------:|

> |default_vb_rstan    |Default model; Variational algorithm for sampling instead of MCMC and using [`{rstan}`]                                |                     3.7s|

Reviewer: As I said in a previous review round I think its useful to distinguish in the output between model differences and fitting approaches differences. What do you think about that?

plot(rt_plot)
```

![](speedup_options-rt_plot-1.png)

Now, let's compare the models by run time and total CRPS for $R_t$ estimation and forecasting.

```{.r .fold-hide}
# Find total CRPS per estimate type
rt_crps_total_by_model <- lapply(
  rt_crps_by_model,
  function(x) x[, sum(crps), by = list(type)] %>%
    setnames("V1", "crps_total")
  ) %>%
  rbindlist(idcol = "model") %>% 
  dcast(formula = model ~ type, value.var = "crps_total")

# Combine the total CRPS for the Rt estimates
rt_crps_summaries <- merge.data.table(
  rt_crps_total_by_model,
  runtimes_dt[, c("model", "runtime", "description")],
  by = "model"
)

# Order by run time and order the columns
rt_crps_summaries <- rt_crps_summaries[order(runtime), ] %>% 
  setcolorder(c("model", "runtime"))

# Print table
knitr::kable(
  rt_crps_summaries,
  caption = "Run times and $R_t$ estimation/forecast performance - measured by total CRPS - of various _EpiNow2_ models (ordered by run times)",
  format.args = list(
    big.mark = ",",
    scientific = FALSE,
    digits = 2
  )
)
```

Table: Run times and $R_t$ estimation/forecast performance - measured by total CRPS - of various _EpiNow2_ models (ordered by run times)

> |model               |                  runtime| estimate| estimate based on partial data| forecast|description                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: Personally I would try and pick an estimation time that makes this clear and discuss this.
